# Comp130-software-engineering

## How useful is continuous integration in aiding debugging practices in games development?

One of the biggest challenges facing modern games development is time management. With expectations of developers to include more and more options for players to utilise and experience, developers are having to be much more cautious about what they spend time on in development. So the worst thing that can happen, is for developers to discover after release, that their game is riddled with awkward of unintentional bugs that break the users immersion in their creation. It's particularly with games, that bugs are of utmost importance to avoid as in many games, they try to build immersion and nothing can break immersion more than the game itself not working as intended. For instance simple errors like textures not loading into the game properly or certain in-game functions not working as intended can have major implications on not only the game, but the developers and their studios as well. Hence, many developers will try to utilise methods and practices that not only help to speed up productivity, but also to minimise bugs and errors being created in the software.

This paper will outline the software engineering principle of continuous integration, a form of version control where developers will make isolated changes to a project, immediately debug, test and add them to the final playable build when they are functioning correctly. This paper will draw on academic references and game developers accounts of development, to highlight what functions and aspects of continuous integration help to aid the debugging process. This will be measured by looking at the individual usefulness of each function and its commitment to a project. For instance the idea of isolating an aspect of a game, or the role of debugging through continuous play-testing of a certain segment of the game. By the end of the paper, many of the processes of continuous integration will have been evaluated and considered in terms of their usefulness, practicality and application in games development.

This paper will also consider the implications of continuous integration in making games. For instance, whether or not this form of debugging and testing can work with all games, or whether it's even viable in all situations. Ideally the reader will leave this paper understanding the benefits that continuous integration has in regards to debugging but also be aware of its limitations and weaknesses.